This data package consists of two files. 
The first is 68 long-term community composition datasets from both primary producer and consumer communities. Data were gathered from both publicly available portals as well as through author contacts where data were not publicly available. In order to be included in the database, a dataset had to meet the following requirements: 1. Species level abundance data; 2. Located in freshwater or terrestrial systems; 3. Minimum of 3 replicates; 4. Minimum of six sampling points through time. For most datasets this meant annual sampling for six years or more. However, some datasets were gathered on sub-annual scales while other were gathered for many years but only sampled every 4 years. Data were cleaned and compiled. Cleaning included aggregating data to a single species cover value for each species in a replicate for each sampling time point. We also removed all species names and replaced them with a SP1--SP391. We then calculated relative abundance of each species by summing the abundance of all species in the replicate and then dividing the abundance of each species by the total sum abundance. 
The second dataset has detailed description of datasets including experimental and biotic predictors. Experimental predictors were from metadata associated with each raw dataset (replicate size, number of replicates, spatial extent of all replicates, length, sampling interval time). Biotic predictors include system type, mean annual precipitation (MAP) and temperature (MAT) of the study location, successional, trophic level of the target community, and lifespan of target community. Climate data (temperature, annual average; precipitation, average annual) was averaged over a 30 year period (1981– 2010) and acquired from the PRISMClimate Group at Oregon State University at a 1 km pixel size (Corvallis, OR; 2012). Taxa of the target community, ecosystem type, and above-ground net primary productivity (not available for each dataset) as well as the location, latitude, longitude, and a citation for each dataset are also included. 
